# platotermjs

This is a version of PLATOTERM that has been ported to JavaScript by way of the emscripten (http://emscripten.org/) project. It connects to an existing CYBIS installation via a WebSockets proxy.

## Demo

It can be seen at http://js.irata.online/

## Requirements

* A web server: IRATA.ONLINE uses nginx, but you can use any standard (Apache, IIS, whatever) standard web server.
* A WebSockets proxy. I use websockify (https://github.com/novnc/websockify), but some web servers, such as IIS have a way to define WebSocket proxies. Your web socket proxy must be pointing to your CYBIS's ASCII port (usually port 8005)
* Make sure your web socket proxy is protected by TLS (SSL). Many browsers now require this for all websockets.

## Building

This is broken into two sections, first covering the build environment, followed by compiling the code.

### Installing Emscripten

You can follow the instructions at https://emscripten.org/docs/getting_started/downloads.html , but for TL:DR:

You need: 

* Python 3.6 or newer (this is especially important on Windows)
* git
* If you're running in Windows, using the Windows Subsystem for Linux is highly recommended.

From a shell, do the following:

```bash
# Get the emsdk repo
git clone https://github.com/emscripten-core/emsdk.git

# Enter that directory
cd emsdk

# Fetch the latest version of the emsdk (not needed the first time you clone)
git pull

# Download and install the latest SDK tools.
./emsdk install latest

# Make the "latest" SDK "active" for the current user. (writes .emscripten file)
./emsdk activate latest

# Activate PATH and other environment variables in the current terminal
source ./emsdk_env.sh
```

**NOTE** If running from windows CMD, run emsdk instead of ./emsdk, and emsdk_env.bat instead of source ./emsdk_env.sh


### Compiling the code

From a shell, do the following:

```bash
# Get the code
git clone https://github.com/tschak909/platotermjs.git

# enter that directory
cd platotermjs

# make the code, note the TARGET_URL must point to where the WebSocket will be listening.
TARGET_URL="wss://js.irata.online:2005" make
```

PLATOTERM will be built inside of build/ and you'll have the following:

* **plato.html** - A basic HTML page which will load the PLATO terminal. This can be modified as needed.
* **plato.js** - The compiled javascript of PLATOTERM
* **src** - Dependency data generated during build process, not needed for deployment.

### Setting up The WebSocket Proxy

Because JavaScript does not support connecting to raw sockets, we need to provide a WebSockets proxy. IRATA.ONLINE uses websockify (https://github.com/novnc/websockify), and other web servers have facilities to provide a WebSocket proxy (e.g. IIS)

#### websockify

You need:

* websockify, either from source (link above), or via distribution, e.g. the websockify package in Debian or Ubuntu.
* a TLS certificate and key, so that secure Websockets will function.

To use:

```bash
websockify --cert=/etc/letsencrypt/live/js.irata.online/cert.pem --key=/etc/letsencrypt/live/js.irata.online/privkey.pem 2005 localhost:8005
```

In this case, it is using LetsEncrypt TLS certificates generated by the letsencrypt tool, and it is forwarding websockets requests on port 2005, to the CYBIS ASCII socket on port 8005.

#### IIS

IIS has support for setting up WebSockets proxies in its user interface. More detailed information can be seen here (https://www.microfocus.com/documentation/extend-acucobol/1011/GUID-81B323FA-6AE6-438A-A1F5-016D7F45A097.html)

### Deploying to server

Since PLATOTERM.js is entirely run on the client, all that is needed is to copy the plato.html and plato.js to an accessible directory on the web server.

### Additional features

The irata-plato.html file is a more advanced shell showing how to implement on-screen keyboard control.



